# VHDL-DE1-SoC-Traffic-Light
VHDL project created junior year of college while working with a DE1-SoC Development Board 
Hardware: DE1-Soc FPGA Development Board (3 slider switches, 1 push button/key, and 2 seven segment controls)
Functionality: A predefined clock is used in the design, running at 50Mhz that is used to clock in most of the values used in the design (Sw(0), SW(1) , SW(9)). Key(0) is an asynchronous clear that sends the state to a default value. I chose to use one slider SW(0) to indicate if a NS pressure plate was active. The NS left turn signal is displayed on HEX1 and the NS straight light on HEX0. The EW pressure plates are activated by SW(1), left turn signal displayed on HEX5 and straight light displayed on HEX4. I chose to have the left turn green light last 4 seconds and the left turn yellow light last 2 seconds. For night mode, the lights blink red and yellow until a pressure plate/sw is activated. Then, the red direction stays solid; this seemed to be the safest way to transition as the cars going this direction would already be stopped. The blinking yellow direction turns solid yellow for 2 seconds and then also turns red. Then, the left turn light stays green until the pressure plates are deactivated/the cars are no longer present. Then the left turn lights turn yellow and then red. Every state where the light turns red is a built-in 1 second safety delay state to allow cars in the intersection time to get through so there will be no accidents. In order to safely transition between night mode and regular operation, the transition is only made after a safety delay state; the light must be red before the transition is made as this is the safest way.
